Alright now to jumpstart things, we
want to use the Spring Boot Initializr.
And this is a website that's been
developed by the Spring team, where we
can download a pre-configured project to
our specification. So I'm going to show
you exactly how to do that. We're going
to go over the website, we'll specify
what we want to include in our new
project, and by the end of this
video, we will have a complete zip file
that is ready for our use to start some
Spring application development. Okay I
want to introduce you to the Spring
Initializr, which I always think is
spelled wrong but I think that is an
accepted way of spelling initializr if
you're from Britain or something maybe.
But what I want you to do is go over to
start.spring.io and this is where
all of the things and  goodness of Spring are gonna start. And let me give you a little
walkthrough here of this application. So
what it's going to do is allow us to
select common stuff for a Spring project.
It will give us a downloadable
zip file for us all
configured for that. So what I am going
to do is show you some of the options
here. Now we have Maven or Gradle. I am
going to use Maven, Gradle is cool. I go
between both of them. Right now, in the
enterprise. we're probably still seeing
60-70 % of projects using Maven, Gradle
is becoming very very popular. I hope
nobody's still using ant. That is just a
new level awful but Maven is like an old
shoe, very easy to use and Gradle has
really come a long way. So I'm going to
leave that as a Maven project. I am
going to select the 2.0 snapshot so this
is before Spring 5. Now when I'm
recording this, the first release
candidate for Spring Framework 5 came
out and it is going to take Spring Boot
a few months to catch up to that. So Spring
5 is due to be released in July. Right
now, it is mid May that I'm recording
this, the API is stable enough. I've been
playing with it. Everything that we're
going to be doing, it's going to be just
fine.
And I will go back and update the source
code. So, I will check this into github
for our use. But for now, I am
going to grab the 2.0 snapshot and then
will update that at some future time. Now
this is the group and then Java
development is always your reversed of
your domain. So in my case, guru.springframework
And let's call this spring5webapp. So we're just going to do
very simple web application. Now you can
come in here and just type out different
things, but I'm going to come down here
and switch over to the full version so
we can see all the different options
here. So we are going to go with jar, Java
one eight. Of course, we will be using
Java for this example. Now we want to do
web, you don't need to get into the reactive web stuff yet. I'm not going to get into
Spring Security or Web Services. It's
going to be pretty light. We will use JPA
and that includes Spring Data JPA. The ORM
is hibernate so that is something
that we definitely want to do. We
will use an H2, in memory database and
let's bring in Thymeleaf. And this is a
interesting note here. The velocity
template engine is starting to be
deprecated out of Spring. I don't think
anything's happened in that project for
a while so I think the Spring team is
showing them to pasture. And I think just
going through these, so we have a number
NoSQL options. This is all advance Spring
stuff. You definitely don't need to
get into off to, we're not going to get
into a Config Server. So a lot of this is
for Spring Cloud and some advanced
things that we are not going to need.
We're doing a very very simple web
application. Now we do have social things
that we can do authentication with a lot
of different social networks extension
for Spring Security, which we are also
not doing on this project. Let's go
ahead and we will take in Spring Boot
Actuator. I actually have an entire course
Spring Boot Actuator. It's a pretty cool
tool. So I'm going to say generate
that project and we can see that I am
getting a zip file downloaded for
our use. Okay, you saw how easy it was that we created a zip
file, we got a zip file down from the
website and this zip file contains a
basic project, a starter project for us
to jumpstart our web application
development with Spring Boot.